---
layout: post
category: personal
title: "I'm Tired"
cw:
  - language
  - politics
---


Content Warning: _Language, Politics_ 

> I'm angry about people's choices about the vaccine. If you have taken the vaccine or have a legitimate reason to not take the vaccine, I've got no issue with you. The rest of you, this post is for you.

I'm tired.

I'm tired of your bullshit. 

We're 16 months into a global pandemic which has claimed more lives than anyone should be willing to accept. It has separated families, destroyed economies, caused job loss, and so many other devastating things. It has required you to... **gasp**... wear a mask in public, _the horror_! But we have the solution to all of this! We've had a vaccine available for months. In the United States you can basically walk into any drug store and get a jab to help protect you and your community, your family, but you refuse. You cite your freedom, your mistrust in the vaccine, in the government. You cite conspiracy theories, outrite, proven falsehoods. 

You claim that taking some drug targeted for Malaria will work in place of the approved, peer-reviewed, vaccine... _"maybe ask your pediatrician"_. No, I don't think I will ask our pediatrician. You claim that other vaccines have made people sick, so you're now suddenly against all of them (PS - I'm glad you became an anti-vaxxer after I received mine as a child). I don't care what you're reasons are, I'm following the science and have chosen to get vaccinated. I get to set the terms with my life and the life of my family.

You see, your decision to not get the vaccine, has consequences. I've tried to accomodate safely so you can meet the newest member of our family. I've tried to dance around the conversation in order to keep the peace, but I'm not getting through. The consequences of you not taking the vaccine can be seen all around you. Cases are sky-rocketing, there's a variant that's 1000 times aggressive in it's spread, and over 99% of COVID related deaths are unvaccinated people. 

My four month old son is unvaccinated. He can't get the vaccine.

The CDC, local authorities, and other politicians are all trying to please their constituents and are putting out weak responses and restrictions (or outright removing them), not based in science or reality, but to placate the people that don't want to wear a mask or take the vaccine.

But here's the thing, I don't have to follow their recommendations or restrictions, I'm the parent, I can set the rules. So here they are:

1. If you're not vaccinated, you can't come to my house, hold my child, sit at my table.
2. See rule #1

You have begrugingly worn masks the few times you've come over, but we've heard the underhanded remarks, seen the rolling of the eyes, and are frankly tired of it. All it shows is that you're not doing **any** of the basic protection measures unless you're being forced to. 

_So why should you be allowed to come to my house, to risk the health of my family?_

You're personal rights and freedoms end when they infringe on the safety of my family. 

I'm done being cool about this, I'm done being nice.

Get the vaccine, I beg you. Wear a fucking mask, it's not that big of a deal. That's all I'm asking, it's not that much.