---
layout: post
category: Hobbies
title: "On Hobbies"
published: true
---

I've [written](/not-just-your-career) about how important it is to have other interests outside of your job before and how I'm a person who has a lot of hobbies. Most of my hobbies would be better described as projects than hobbies, here's an incomplete list of some of my projects:

- [Neutron](/neutron)
- [Tapes](/tapes)
- [bender4](/bender4)
- [hermes](/hermes)
- Electic Go-Kart Conversion
- Spectare (Distributed video surveilance platform on k8s)
- Turning Bourbon Barrels into Drums
- Live Music Archiving

You get the point. I have a lot of projects and basically none of them are cheap. So I slowly move from one project to the next as interest and funds allow. The problem with this method is, I almost never finish a project but I'm almost always entertained.

Lately, I've been actively working on Neutron, writing code, 3D printing, procuring parts for sensors. The other night I was cleaning up the basement a bit and saw the motor for my electric go-kart sitting on my bench - so naturally I started measuring for the laser cut steel plates I need to have made to mount the motor. Today as I'm looking at this list of projects, I'm now interested in my bourbon barrel drums again. 

Some of my hobbies are technology related, but none are directly related to my dayjob or even my profession. In the beginning of my career I found a lot of value in labbing and setting up home infrastructure that matched what I might be working on in production, but as I've moved further and further away from turning the knobs for a living, I've derrived less value from such labs. 

Instead, I'm trying to find ways to disconnect more and work in the physical world - to move away from the keyboard.