---
layout: post
title:  "100 Days of Code - Day 11"
date:   2022-08-10 08:52:11 -0400
categories:
  - 100DoC
  - IAQ
published: true
---

I've done a few rounds of 100 Days of Code in the past, but never really made it past 2 weeks. Part of the reason for that failure is the weekend portion - I don't like to computer on the weekend since I computer very hard during the week.

I decided it would be a really good use of my time to work on my Indoor Air Quality platform as a part of my attempt at 100 Days of Code. It's the next step for me in my career, so I need a way to force my effort. 

There are two parts to making my IAQ platform successful, the sensors themselves, and the backend system.

### Previous Days

- [Day 1](/100doc-day1) - Getting the infrastructure setup for development
- [Day 2](/100doc-day2) - Getting basic data out of Temp/Hum sensor, figuring out scope for others
- [Day 3](/100doc-day3) - Publish data to InfluxDB
- [Day 4](/100doc-day4) - Handled some errors in the publisher, got CouchDB up adn running
- [Day 5](/100doc-day5) - Slack bot alerts!
- [Day 6](/100doc-day6) - Health Checks babay!
- [Day 7](/100doc-day7) - Ansible and other things for a friend's project
- [Vacation](/100doc-vacation) - I'm on vacation so haven't been coding much
- [Day 8](/100doc-day8) - `Makefile` to test, build, push multiple docker containers to Github registry
- [Day 9](/100doc-day9) - Large refactor to use Flask API instead of reading results from files. 
- [Day 10](/100doc-day10) - Bug hunting and logging

### Day 11

Today I've moved on to another related project, specifically our IAQ-BADGE product. I'll be attending a 20k person conference at the end of the month and I wanted to take an Aranet4 and our IAQ Badge with me to see how everything stacks up - and to keep me safe.

I spent about two hours mocking up the hardware (Raspberry Pi Pico and Waveshare ePaper display) to try and get stuff displaying on the screen. I failed at that task, but learned a lot about micropython. I really enjoy working with the Raspberry Pi Picos. Looking forward to testing out the `w` model I have as well. I'm actually curious if we'd be able to migrate the regular sensor over to a Pico, but I'm not sure if it has the horsepower to handle everything we're doing.

Anyways, here's the commit I pushed today, with mocked up code. I'm mostly waiting on morning to come to re-solder everything and give it another go - I think I have everything wired incorrectly. 

[Today's Commit](https://github.com/Very-Good-Technologies/iaq-badge/commit/930cea29fbbf1a4644a4baf29173c1b9513d1016)