---
layout: post
title:  "100 Days of Code - Day 5"
date:   2022-07-13 08:52:11 -0400
categories:
  - 100DoC
  - IAQ
published: true
---

I've done a few rounds of 100 Days of Code in the past, but never really made it past 2 weeks. Part of the reason for that failure is the weekend portion - I don't like to computer on the weekend since I computer very hard during the week.

I decided it would be a really good use of my time to work on my Indoor Air Quality platform as a part of my attempt at 100 Days of Code. It's the next step for me in my career, so I need a way to force my effort. 

There are two parts to making my IAQ platform successful, the sensors themselves, and the backend system.

### Previous Days

- [Day 1](/100doc-day1) - Getting the infrastructure setup for development
- [Day 2](/100doc-day2) - Getting basic data out of Temp/Hum sensor, figuring out scope for others
- [Day 3](/100doc-day3) - Publish data to InfluxDB
- [Day 4](/100doc-day4) - Handled some errors in the publisher, got CouchDB up adn running

### Day 5

Recently I read something about how you should work on what's interesting you for the day. So I took the day to give the IAQ-ONE Platform the ability to alert to my slack instance, using my personal slackbot `@jarvis`. I use `@jarvis` to do several things at the house, from controlling lights via slack, getting the weather, and a bunch of other things in the works (including requesting shows on Plex). It was only natural to put the sensor platform in there. I wanted to be able to WARN on a sensor missing a check-in for more than 5m and then CRIT when it's not checked in for more than 30m. 

There seems to be a few bugs with the alert feature in InfluxDB (or more likely I need to RTFM a bit more) and I need to spend some time making the message itself more useful and _functional_, but I'm pretty happy with how simple it turned out to be.