---
layout: post
title:  "100 Days of Code - Day 7"
date:   2022-07-15 08:52:11 -0400
categories:
  - 100DoC
  - IAQ
published: true
---

I've done a few rounds of 100 Days of Code in the past, but never really made it past 2 weeks. Part of the reason for that failure is the weekend portion - I don't like to computer on the weekend since I computer very hard during the week.

I decided it would be a really good use of my time to work on my Indoor Air Quality platform as a part of my attempt at 100 Days of Code. It's the next step for me in my career, so I need a way to force my effort. 

There are two parts to making my IAQ platform successful, the sensors themselves, and the backend system.

### Previous Days

- [Day 1](/100doc-day1) - Getting the infrastructure setup for development
- [Day 2](/100doc-day2) - Getting basic data out of Temp/Hum sensor, figuring out scope for others
- [Day 3](/100doc-day3) - Publish data to InfluxDB
- [Day 4](/100doc-day4) - Handled some errors in the publisher, got CouchDB up adn running
- [Day 5](/100doc-day5) - Slack bot alerts!
- [Day 6](/100doc-day6) - Health Checks babay!

### Day 7

Today, I didn't work on my project, but worked on one for someone else. A friend of mine gave me a task, something that I probably didn't need to work on, but he asked, so I worked on it. I started putting together an Ansible playbook to deploy a Filecoin Daemon using Lotus. It wasn't terribly difficult to put together the initial pieces, but I'm still working on getting the acutal _"get it into production"_ part of it complete. I know, nearly nothing about the Filecoin and `$COIN` space, so I'm still piecing together how this thing should come together. 

Anyways, it was a fairly easy task, but I wrote _code_, so damnit, it counts.

For those asking, you can find my terribly not idempotent, 45 minutes worth of effort, Ansible playbook [here](https://github.com/wesdottoday/ansible-lotus-filecoin).