---
layout: post
title:  "100 Days of Code - Day 6"
date:   2022-07-14 08:52:11 -0400
categories:
  - 100DoC
  - IAQ
published: true
---

I've done a few rounds of 100 Days of Code in the past, but never really made it past 2 weeks. Part of the reason for that failure is the weekend portion - I don't like to computer on the weekend since I computer very hard during the week.

I decided it would be a really good use of my time to work on my Indoor Air Quality platform as a part of my attempt at 100 Days of Code. It's the next step for me in my career, so I need a way to force my effort. 

There are two parts to making my IAQ platform successful, the sensors themselves, and the backend system.

### Previous Days

- [Day 1](/100doc-day1) - Getting the infrastructure setup for development
- [Day 2](/100doc-day2) - Getting basic data out of Temp/Hum sensor, figuring out scope for others
- [Day 3](/100doc-day3) - Publish data to InfluxDB
- [Day 4](/100doc-day4) - Handled some errors in the publisher, got CouchDB up adn running
- [Day 5](/100doc-day5) - Slack bot alerts!

### Day 6

Today was all about orchestration and deployment. Thinking about the lifecycle of a sensor from beginning to end. Things that we'll need to think about:

- Initial preparation before shipment
- OOB Experience
- Customer Registration
- Health of sensor
- Software updates (alert mechanism, polling?)
- Factory Reset
- Decommissioning

Additionally, we'll want to think about deletion of data for customers. I was not able to tackle all of these things today, so I focused primarily on sensor health, hoping it may give me more insight any instability in the platform. It took a litte more effort than I expected to put together, but I ended up with a few pieces that come together to give a good picture of nodea health.

**Local REST API** on each container that listens at `container:8080/health` and returns a related health information about that particular container. 

**Docker Container Info** is pulled using [`py-docker`](https://github.com/docker/docker-py). I pull a bunch of relevant details about the container name, the specific tag they're using, processes running in container, etc. All of this really pieces together a good picture about the health of the nodes.

Pretty productive day, I'm very happy about it.