---
layout: post
title:  "100 Days of Code - Day 2"
date:   2022-07-08 08:52:11 -0400
categories:
  - 100DoC
  - IAQ
published: true
---

I've done a few rounds of 100 Days of Code in the past, but never really made it past 2 weeks. Part of the reason for that failure is the weekend portion - I don't like to computer on the weekend since I computer very hard during the week.

I decided it would be a really good use of my time to work on my Indoor Air Quality platform as a part of my attempt at 100 Days of Code. It's the next step for me in my career, so I need a way to force my effort. 

There are two parts to making my IAQ platform successful, the sensors themselves, and the backend system.

### Day 2

I spent some time today getting organized and then writing some basic `hello world` functionality for a few of the sensors. The `BME680` can print Temperature, Humidity, Pressure to the terminal. I need to add the VOC data next, as well as having python spit out a small lightweight web server to deliver an API to query. My first goal will be to get this sensor dialed in the best I can. 

The `SFA3X` sensor is able to print data to the terminal using a C library I found. I don't want to use C, so I'll need to look into other options here, including porting the library over. I really don't want to do this myself, but it might be a good exercise. 

The `HM3301` sensor will need me to build a software based `i2c` emulation, because it requires that you slow down the `i2c` bus, which would mess with the other sensors. I'll dig into that in the coming days. I know this sensor works well with Python, because I've used it in the past.

Finally, the Multichannel Gas v2 sensor - it's a complete disaster. There are some libraries that exist, but they're not working that well. I need to probably combine a couple of them to see if I can hack something together. I'm sure this can be done with a little bit of work. I'll probably spend some time later tonight or tomorrow working on this. 

All in all, it feels good to start making progress. 